First, you will process the
corpus into accounts matrix.
This captures the number of
occurrences of relative n-grams.
Next, you will transform
the count matrix into
a probability matrix
that contains
information about
the conditional probability
of the n-grams.
Then you will relate
the probability matrix
to the language model.
I will also show you how to deal
with technical issues
that arise from
multiplying a loss of
small numbers when calculating
the sentence probability.
The last section briefly
describes how to use
the n-gram language model to
generate new sentences
from scratch.
So let's start with count matrix.
Here's a reminder
of the formula for
testing the conditional
probability of n-gram.
Lowercase n denotes where the
n-gram ends in a sentence.
The count matrix captures
the numerator for all n-grams
appearing in the corpus.
All unique corpus, N minus-1
grams make up the rows,
and all unique words of the
corpus make up the columns.
Now look at the count
matrix of a bigram model.
For the corpus I study I learn,
the rows represent
the first word of
the bigram and the columns
represent the second
word of the bigram.
For bigram study I,
you need to find a row
with the word study,
any column with the word I.
This bigram appeared
just once in the corpus.
The whole count matrix can be
treated in a single pass
through the corpus.
You can do that by reading
through the corpus with
a sliding window composed
of two words to
represent your bigram.
For each bigram you find,
you increase the value in
the count matrix by one.
Let's move on to the
probability matrix.
Now that you've used the
count matrix to provide
your numerator for the
n-gram probability formula,
it's time to get the denominator.
First, update the count matrix
by calculating the
sum for each row,
then normalize each cell.
You can do that by dividing
each cell by the
corresponding row sum.
The row sum is equivalent to
your counts of the n minus
1 gram prefixes from the
formula's denominator.
This will always be true since
the n minus 1 gram prefix
is always followed by some word.
If the prefix was at the
end of the sentence,
it is now followed by the
end of the sentence token.
Let's create a probability
matrix from an example.
First, calculate the sum of
bigram count for each row,
then divide each
cell by the row sum.
Let's look at one example.
The prefix I is followed
by study or by learn.
As you can see in
the count matrix,
if you add up those
two instances,
you'll see that the
word I appears twice.
Now let's go back to
the probability matrix.
You can see that the
probability of I study is
1.5 and the probability
of I learn is also 1.5.
The next step is to connect
the probability matrix with
your definition of
the language model
from this week's overview.
The language model can now be
a simple scripts that uses
the probability matrix to
estimate the probability
of a given sentence.
It estimates the probability
by splitting the sentence into
a series of n-grams and then
finding their probability
in the probability matrix.
Alternatively, the language model
can predict the next elements of
a sequence by extracting
the last n minus 1 gram
from the end of a sequence.
After that, the language model
finds the corresponding row in
the probability matrix and
returns the word with
the highest probability.
Using the probability matrix
from the previous slide,
find the probability of
the sentence I learn.
You take 1 times 0.5 times
1, which equals 0.5.
You have a 50 percent
chance of seeing
the sentence I learn
next in your corpus.
That's cool. There are
a few loose ends in the
language model implementation.
Let's discuss them. The sentence
probability calculation
requires multiplication of
a lots of small numbers.
In fact, all of the probabilities
fall in the interval 0-1.
Multiplying many
probabilities brings
the risk of numerical underflow.
You may remember this
from previous modules.
All you need to know
is that computers have
difficulty storing very
small decimal numbers.
This can end up causing errors.
If you have an
opportunity to store
a larger number
instead, you should.
You may recall the
mathematical trick
for solving this where
you wrote the product of terms
as the sum of other terms,
the logarithm of a product.
One interesting application
of language models is
text generation from scratch
or using a small hint.
For example, the algorithm
chooses brackets S Lynn to start.
Next, it chooses a
bigram with Lynn,
in this case, Lynn drinks,
then it chooses drinks tea.
Finally, it chooses to
end the sentence there.
This happens for all bigram
starting with tea in your corpus.
This is how the algorithm
accomplishes this.
First, it randomly chooses
among all bigrams starting with
the starts of sentence
symbol brackets
S based on the
bigram probability.
That means the bigrams
with higher values
in the probability matrix are
more likely to be chosen.
Next, the algorithm
chooses a new bigram
at random from the bigrams
beginning with a
previously chosen word,
then this bigram is
added to your sentence.
The algorithm continues
on like this until
the end sentence token brackets
backslash S is chosen.
As you might have guessed,
this is done by randomly
choosing a bigram that starts
with the previous word and
ends with the backslash S.
Now you know how to calculate
n-gram probabilities
from a corpus so we can build
your own language model.
Next, I'll show you
how to evaluate it.